Add support for Windows scene understanding as a spatial observer (#7458)
microsoft/MixedRealityToolkit-Unity: Documentation/Experimental/SceneUnderstanding/README_SceneUnderstanding.md

# MRTK Scene Understanding Demo

> This is an __experminental__ prelease that integrates [Scene Understanding](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/scene-understanding) (SU) as a MRTK.

Reviewer: "SU as a MRTK" doesn't make sense

> SU - in a nutshell, will return a semantic representation of scene entities as well as their geometric forms on __HoloLens 2__.

Reviewer: Maybe elaborate further. As an example, the SU observer can provide simplified planes to represent walls, floors, etc identified in an environment at runtime. Or something to that attestment to bring it down to layman's terms. Also, I would recommending making the beginning

Spatial Understanding will return a semantic....

## Goals and features of the demo

> * Demo scene with visualization of Scene Objects with options for configuring the observer

Reviewer: I would also emphasize early on that the current experimental feature only works on HL1/HL2 or just HL2 etc

* Example script that excersises the event system demonstrating common tasks
* Save device room data for offline development
* In-editor workflow for developing with previously saved room data (.bytes files)
* For the first time, access to the highest possible resolution of the world mesh!

## Observer overview

> When asked, the SU observer will return Scene Objects with attributes useful for mixed world development. What is returned is dependent on the configuration of the observer when fetched. For instance, if you want the occlusion mask, the observer must be configured to generate quads.

Reviewer: SU observer and Scene Objects => reference classes directly

It is expected the majority of "real" applications will never show the underlying data in raw form.

## Background and development notes

These links cover the underlying technology the Spatial Awareness service is using behind the scenes.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/scene-understanding

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/scene-understanding-sdk

> 

Reviewer: In general, don't paste full links in documentation. Add them as hyperlinks to augment existing explanations such as in your intro

Reviewer: A better place would be to add direct links in a See also section at the bottom of the article. See other MRTK doc pages as an example

> The Scene Understanding observer inherits from older spatial awareness concepts so the implementation is and odd fit in places.

Reviewer: end of sentence doesn't make sense

> Eventually this system should replace the existing SpatialAwareness observer.

Reviewer: This seems like a dangerous thing to say? @davidkline-ms 

especially since this is designed for HL2 and not other platforms as well as does not elaborate on how, when or in what what this will replace the existing system

Scene Understanding is a __platform specific__ technology. Spatial Awareness is meant to cover _platform agnostic_ capabilities. With few data points, it's likely we don't have the proper abstraction yet. 

## Prerequisites

Ensure build settings' platform is set to UWP.

Ensure your project is configured to use MSBuild.

You may need to restart unity if you get errors about missing assembly references. This should trigger download of packages.

![Manage MRTK Configuration](Images/ConfigureMRTKMSBuildMenu.jpg)

![MSBuild enabled](Images/MRTKProjectConfiguratorMSBuildEnabled.jpg)

## Demonstration and debugging SU

> 

Reviewer: It would be helpful to add code snippets for someone getting started. The example scene is very useful but what are the simple lines of code to even get basic access to the observer/system. Maybe like Golden path/typical path scenario with code snippets. See following as example
https://microsoft.github.io/MixedRealityToolkit-Unity/Documentation/SpatialAwareness/UsageGuide.html

Reviewer: It would also be good to callout the key platform classes to utilize like IMixedRealitySpatialAwarenessSceneUnderstandingObserver  and add an xref so people are linked to the documentation page for the class/interface

### Unity demo scene

Open the scene file and press play!

`Assets/MixedRealityToolkit.Examples/Experimental/SpatialAwareness/DemoSpatialAwareness.unity`

#### Configuring the observer service

Select the 'MixedRealityTookit' game object and check the inspector.

![scene understanding location in heirarchy](Images/MRTKHierarchy.png)
![mrkt location in inspector](Images/MRTKLocation.png)

These options will allow you to configure the observer on play. 

If you press play at this point the example serialized scene data will be loaded and displayed in the editor (assuming the observer is configured to show 'debug' objects)

These 'debug' options are meant to demonstrate some of the features of the SU DLL. It is intended that most consumers of SU will write their own scripts that subscribe to SU events, and do whatever they want with the info. In addition many observer options may be set at runtime.

> The provided DemoSpatialAwarenessController.cs offers examples of these things.

Reviewer: unnecessary, re-explained below

### Example script

The example script _DemoSpatialAwarenessController.cs_, demonstrates the major concepts in working with the SU service.

* Subscribing to SU events
* Handling SU events
* Finding the nearest platform
* Instantiating a prefab and placing it in an open spot

> The script uses MRKT UI to toggle service features on the controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example script uses MRTK UI to toggle service features on the Spatial Understanding observer.
```

> Turning on "Instantiate Prefabs", will demonstrate creating objects that size to fit themselves to all Scene Objects, gathered neatly under a parent object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turning on *Instantiate Prefabs*, will demonstrate creating objects that size to fit themselves to all Scene Objects, gathered neatly under a parent object.
```

![demo controller options](Images/Controller.png)

### Built app notes

You may build and deploy to HoloLens in the standard way. Once running, you'll be presented with a number of buttons to play with the features.

> The "Place" button will make a prefab appear on the nearest platform. (which may be behind you!) You should hear a spatial sound when this occurs to help you find it.

Reviewer: In general, it is best to avoid informal you, instead say things like One should hear a spatial sound....etc

Note, their are some pit falls in making queries to the observer. Misconfiguration of a fetch request result in your event payload not containing the data you expected. For example, if you don't request quads, then you won't see the occlusion mask textures. Like wise, you wont see the world mesh if you don't request meshes. The `DemoSpatialAwarenessController` script takes care of some of these dependencies, but not all.

> As this effort in in EXPERIMENTAL things are likely to change. Feedback requested at https://github.com/microsoft/MixedRealityToolkit-Unity/pull/7458

Reviewer: I would remove this as the PR will eventually merge soon.

> Saved .bytes files can be accessed through the device portal at `User Folders/LocalAppData/.../LocalState/PREFIX_yyyyMMdd_hhmmss.bytes`. You can use these `bytes` for your workflow in edtor by specifying them in the observer profile.

Reviewer: add hyperlink to [device portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/using-the-windows-device-portal)

"accessed through the file explorer under the [device portal] (hyperlink)"

These ".bytes" files can be utilized in editor by specifying them in the scene understanding observer profile in inspector
